1. Source

An 241Am source, which emits a-particles of initial mean energies 5.49 (85%) and 5.44 (13%) MeV,is located in a metal chamber. Do not interfere with the chamber.  The source is covered by a gold coating, which is 3 μm thick according to the manufacturer. The gold coating reduces the energy of the emitted alpha particles and increases the energy spread

2. Detector

The detector is  large (~6 mm diameter) silicon P-N diode which has a very thin (~50 nm) gold surface layer deposited on it which allow penetration by charge particles (here alpha particles).  The detector is biased  by  a  voltage  supply  connected  to  the  conductive  surface  layers,  which  creates  a  charge- depletion  region  in  the  diode.  When  an  incident  charged  particle  enters  the  detector,  electron-hole pairs  are  created  as  the  particle  is  decelerated.  The  charges  are  drawn    to   the  appropriate  surface contact,  creating  a  charge  pulse  that  is  proportional  to  the  energy  of  the  particle.  An  amplifier  connected to the diode converts the charge pulse into a voltage signal at a convenient level.The photodiode surface is located (67.7 +/- 1) mm away from the source.

3. Pulse Amplifier  

A  pre-amplifier  (custom constructed)  and  amplifier  unit  (custom  constructed) are used to amplify, and condition, the pulses from the detector. The pre-amplifier is a charge-to -voltage converter that provides an output voltage proportional to the charge produced by the photodiode connected to its input.  The  amplifier  provides a  voltage  gain  to the  pre-amplifier  pulse  so  that  output  level  is compatible with the input range of the multichannel analyser.Biasing for the detector is provided by the APAD unit (ORTEC A576). The rear “input” of the A576 is connected to the “det. bias” connector on the rear of the 109A preamplifier to provide a bias voltage to the detector.  •The output of the detector is connected (via a 93 ohm cable) to the input of the pre-amplifier.  Important:  Do  not  disconnect  the  input  to  the  preamplifier while  it  is  powered  up.  Damage to the input stage may occur. •The preamplifier “output” should connected to the “input” of the amplifier unit. •The “output” of the amplifier is connected to both a digital storage oscilloscope (DSO) and also the multichannel analyser unit.  •The  gain  of  the  amplifier  is  adjusted  so  that  the  output  pulses  are  approximately  4  V  in amplitude, which can be verified on the DSO.•Ensure  the  bias  voltage  to  the  detector  is  applied.  To  check  this,  on  the  A576  APAD  unit  
1.2:   Range and Energy Loss of α-Particles in Air 7ensure  that  the  top-most  switch  (marked  TEST  and  OFF)  is  in  the  centre  position,  and  the  “BIAS ON” indicator above the switch is illuminated.Allow the electronics to come to thermal equilibrium for at least 20 minutes before taking a run of measurements


4. Multichannel analyser

The  multi-channel  analyser  unit  (MCA)  is  a  device  that  detects  voltage pulses  and  records  their heights in a series of internal bins (channels) to produce a histogram of pulse heights. The unit used (MCA 8000A) accepts pulses from 0-5 Volts and divides this voltage range into up to 16384 equally spaced voltage bins. In this experiment you will set the MCA to use 1024 bins.The  MCA  updates  the  values  of  all  bins  in  internal  flash memory  after  each  detected  pulse.  A  computer is used to read the MCA unit and display the values contained in the bins on screen as a histogram, allowing observation of the energy spectrum of the input pulses.   Ensure that the MCA is powered up – a red indicator light on the front face will be illuminated. Press the small, square red button next to the indicator light to power up the MCA.

ANALYSIS
. In the panel on the right hand side will be displayed various calculated parameters including the Centroid (centre of mass) FWHM (full width of the peak at half maximum height points), Net area (baseline corrected area of the ROI), Uncertainty (error in the net area), Gross Area (total area including baseline values). The Appendix illustrates how these parameters are calculated.

As  the  pressure  is  increased,  the  air  reduces  the  energy  of  the  alpha  particles  reaching  the  detector and, consequently, the position of the energy peak moves towards lower energy. For data  analysis  purposes,  the  most  useful  information  occurs  at  pressures  where  the  alpha particles are absorbed, i.e .  when the distribution is cut off by the noise peak. Ensure that you have a large number of measurements in this regime (>10   recommended) and that you take data until all alpha particles have been absorbed.

A consequence of the threshold operation of the MCA is that particles with energies below the  threshold aren’t  recorded.  At high  pressure,  when  the  alpha  spectrum  begins  to  be  truncated by the threshold, your measurement of the number of surviving particles will be in error. By observing the trend of the spectrum as it approaches the threshold and extrapolating, you can correct for the number of below-threshold events.  